NAME:   Career Records for All Modern Position Players Eligible for the
        Major League Baseball Hall of Fame
TYPE:	Census
SIZE:	1340 observations, 27 variables

DESCRIPTIVE ABSTRACT:
This dataset includes the number of seasons played, games played,
official at-bats (AB), runs scored, hits (H), doubles (2B), triples
(3B), home runs (HR), runs batted in (RBI), walks (BB), strikeouts
(SO), batting average (BA), on base percentage (OBP), slugging
percentage (SLG), stolen bases (SB), times caught stealing (CS),
fielding average (FA), primary position played (POS), adjusted
production (AP), batting runs (BR), adjusted batting runs (ABR), runs
created (RC), stolen base runs (SBR), fielding runs (FR), and total
player rating (TPR) for each modern (post-1900) major league baseball
player who had retired prior to the 1993 season and who was eligible
for the Major League Baseball Hall of Fame (had played in at least ten
seasons).  In addition, the dataset includes an indication of whether
or not the player has been admitted into the Hall of Fame and, if so,
under what set of rules he was admitted (HOF).

SOURCE:
These data are taken from _The Baseball Encyclopedia_ (Reichler 1993)
and _Total Baseball_ (Thorn and Palmer 1993).

VARIABLE DESCRIPTIONS:
Seasons played, games played, official at-bats (AB), runs scored, hits
(H), doubles (2B), triples (3B), home runs (HR), runs batted in (RBI),
walks (BB), strikeouts (SO), stolen bases (SB), and times caught
stealing (CS) each represent the number of times the corresponding
event occurred over the course of a player's career.  Batting average
(BA), on base percentage (OBP), slugging percentage (SLG), and fielding
average (FA) are each ratios of various career totals.  Primary
position played (POS) represents the defensive position (catcher, first
base, second base, shortstop, third base, outfield, or designated
hitter) played most frequently by the player throughout his career.
Adjusted production (AP), batting runs (BR), adjusted batting runs
(ABR), runs created (RC), stolen base runs (SBR), fielding runs (FR),
and total player rating (TPR) are various composites of player career
totals.  Finally, the dataset includes an indication of whether or not
the player has been admitted into the Major League Baseball Hall of
Fame and, if so, under what set of rules he was admitted.
 
The JSE Data Archive contains three versions of this dataset.

   MLBHOF-tab.new.dat contains the data in a tab-delimited format with 
   a single row of data for the career of each player.

   MLBHOF.new.xls contains the data in an Excel file, again with a 
   single row of data for the career of each player.

   MLBHOF.new.dat contains the data in a fixed column format with a 
   single row of data for the career of each player.

The format for MLBHOF.new.dat is described below, although the same
variables in the order given below are found on each row of
MLBHOF-tab.new.dat and MLBHOF.new.xls as well.

Columns
  1 -  19   Name
 20 -  21   Number Of Seasons Played
 27 -  30   Games Played
 32 -  36   Official At-Bats
 38 -  41   Runs Scored
 43 -  46   Hits
 48 -  50   Doubles
 52 -  54   Triples
 56 -  58   Home Runs
 60 -  63   Runs Batted In
 65 -  68   Walks
 70 -  73   Strikeouts
 76 -  79   Batting Average
 82 -  85   On Base Percentage
 88 -  91   Slugging Percentage
 93 -  95   Adjusted Production
 97 - 100   Batting Runs
102 - 105   Adjusted Batting Runs
107 - 110   Runs Created
112 - 115   Stolen Bases
117 - 119   Caught Stealing
121 - 124   Stolen Base Runs
128 - 131   Fielding Average
133 - 136   Fielding Runs
      139   Primary Position Played
141 - 146   Total Player Rating
      149   Hall Of Fame Membership

Values are column-aligned.  The few missing values occur only where the
data were either not collected or are unavailable.  Measures such as
Caught Stealing, for example, have been collected sporadically
throughout Major League Baseball's history.

STORY BEHIND THE DATA:
This dataset has been used in a undergraduate/master's level capstone
course in data analysis in the University of Cincinnati's College of
Business Administration.  The students enrolled in this course are
working toward either an undergraduate major in quantitative analysis
or a master's degree in quantitative analysis.

Additional information about these data can be found in the "Datasets
and Stories" article "Career Records for All Modern Position Players
Eligible for the Major League Baseball Hall of Fame" in the _Journal of
Statistics Education_ (Cochran 2000).

PEDAGOGICAL NOTES:
The purpose of the course (and use of the dataset) is to provide
students with a full experience in analyzing data through a
comprehensive data analysis project.  The class is divided into groups
of three or four students, each of which is provided with a diskette
containing a unique part of a dataset.  These data include various
instructor-induced anomalies such missing values, repeated
observations, and misplaced decimals.  Throughout the course, students
are instructed in exploratory data analysis, data management, topics in
statistical modeling, and the role of a statistical consultant.  Final
grades are based primarily on presentations of results given by the
student groups to their classmates, as well as to faculty and Ph.D.
students from our department, at the end of the academic term.

REFERENCES:
Cochran, J. J., and Levy, M. S. (2000), "Who 'Deserves' To Be in the
Major League Baseball Hall of Fame?" University of Cincinnati Working
Paper #2000-01.

James, B. (1982), _The Bill James Baseball Abstract 1982_, New York:
Ballantine Books.

Reichler, J. L. (ed.) (1993), _The Baseball Encyclopedia_, New York:
MacMillan Publishing Company.

Thorn, J., and Palmer, P. (1984), _The Hidden Game Of Baseball: A
Revolutionary Approach to Baseball and Its Statistics_, New York:
Doubleday.

----- (1993), _Total Baseball_, New York: Harper Collins Publishers.

SUBMITTED BY:
James J. Cochran
Department of Computer Information Systems and Analysis
Louisiana Tech University
Ruston, LA  71272
cochrajj@econqa.cba.uc.edu

